.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "LLNL Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_llnl_lustre_client - man page for the LDMS llnl_lustre_client plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=llnl_lustre_client [ <attr>=<value> ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file. The llnl_lustre_client plugin provide a metric set for each of the lustre client
mounts found on a node.  The schema is named "llnl_lustre_client".  The data for the metric sets is
generally found in /proc/fs/lustre/llite/*/stats.

This plugin currently employs zero configuration.  The producer name is set to the hostname, and the metric set instance names are
derived from the llite instance name.  Any user-supplied configuration values will be ignored.  Future versions may add
configuration options.

This plugin should work with at least Lustre versions 2.8, 2.10, and 2.12.

NOTE: This plugin is only expected to be fully function in an ovis v4 release
in which the ldms_set_delete() function is fixed.  (Which specific v4 release
will have the fix is unknown at the time of writing.)  It will _mostly_ work
with ovis v3, but an llite name such as "lquake-ffff000a000b7800" can never
be reused once it disappears from /proc.  This is not likely to be a problem
most of the time, but if it ever happens an ldmsd daemon restart will be
required to use the name again.

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name> [job_set=<metric set name>]
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be llnl_lustre_client.
.TP
job_set=<metric set name>
.br
The name of the metric set that contains the job id information (default=job_id)
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=llnl_lustre_client
config name=llnl_lustre_client
start name=llnl_lustre_client interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
