.TH man 7 "1 May 2019" "LDMS Plugin" "LLNL Plugin for LDMS"

.SH NAME
Plugin_llnl_lustre_mdt - man page for the LDMS llnl_lustre_mdt plugin

.SH SYNOPSIS
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.br
config name=llnl_lustre_mdt

.SH DESCRIPTION
With LDMS (Lightweight Distributed Metric Service), plugins for the ldmsd (ldms daemon) are configured via ldmsd_controller
or a configuration file.

The llnl_lustre_mdt plugin provide metric sets for two different schemas: llnl_lustre_mdt and llnl_lustre_mdt_job_stats.

The metric sets using schema llnl_lustre_mdt will have a producer name set to the hostname,
and the instance name set to the mdt name.  The data for these metrics sets come from a combination
of the data in /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/stats and a few other single-value files in /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/.

The metric sets using schema llnl_lustre_mdt_job_stats will have a producer name set to the hostname,  and the
instance name will be set to a combination of the mdt name and the job_id string.  The data for these metrics sets
come from /proc/fs/lustre/mdt/*/job_stats.

This plugin currently employs zero configuration. Any user-supplied configuration values will be ignored.  Future versions may add
configuration options.

This plugin should work with at least Lustre versions 2.8, 2.10, and 2.12.

NOTE: This plugin is only expected to be fully function in an ovis v4 release
in which the ldms_set_delete() function is fixed.  (Which specific v4 release
will have the fix is unknown at the time of writing.)

.SH CONFIGURATION ATTRIBUTE SYNTAX

.TP
.BR config
name=<plugin_name>
.br
configuration line
.RS
.TP
name=<plugin_name>
.br
This MUST be llnl_lustre_mdt.
.RE

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Within ldmsd_controller or a configuration file:
.nf
load name=llnl_lustre_mdt
config name=llnl_lustre_mdt
start name=llnl_lustre_mdt interval=1000000
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
ldmsd(8), ldms_quickstart(7), ldmsd_controller(8), ldms_sampler_base(7)
